SCHEMA.md, before:

# std::slop Database Schema

This document describes the SQLite schema used by std::slop to persist history, tools, skills, and usage statistics.

## Tables

### 1. messages
Stores user prompts, assistant responses, and tool executions.

| Column | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| id | INTEGER | Primary Key (Autoincrement). |
| session_id | TEXT | Conversation identifier. |
| role | TEXT | `system`, `user`, `assistant`, or `tool`. Has a CHECK constraint. |
| content | TEXT | Message text or tool JSON. |
| tool_call_id | TEXT | Metadata for linking responses (e.g., `id|name`). |
| status | TEXT | `completed`, `tool_call`, or `dropped`. Default: `completed`. |
| created_at | DATETIME | Entry timestamp. Default: `CURRENT_TIMESTAMP`. |
| group_id | TEXT | Turn identifier for atomic operations (Unix nanoseconds). |
| parsing_strategy | TEXT | The orchestrator strategy used to publish the message (e.g., `openai`, `gemini`). Used for filtering tool history during cross-model switches. |
| tokens | INTEGER | Number of tokens in the message content. Default: 0. |

### 2. tools
Registry of available agent tools.

| Column | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| name | TEXT | Primary Key. Unique tool name. |
| description | TEXT | Functional description. |
| json_schema | TEXT | Argument definition in JSON Schema format. |
| is_enabled | INTEGER | Status flag (1 for active, 0 for inactive). Default: 1. |
| call_count | INTEGER | Number of successful tool executions. Default: 0. |

### 3. skills
Persona patches for specialized instructions.

| Column | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| id | INTEGER | Primary Key (Autoincrement). |
| name | TEXT | Unique skill name. |
| description | TEXT | Purpose description. |
| system_prompt_patch | TEXT | Instructions to inject into the system prompt. |
| activation_count | INTEGER | Number of times this skill has been activated. Default: 0. |

### 4. sessions
Persists user settings for each conversation session.

| Column | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| id | TEXT | Primary Key. Session ID. |
| context_size | INTEGER | Size of the sequential rolling window (number of groups). Default: 2. |
| scratchpad | TEXT | A flexible workspace for the LLM to store plans and notes. |
| active_skills | TEXT | JSON array of currently active skill names for this session. |

### 5. usage
Tracks token usage for cost and performance monitoring.

| Column | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| id | INTEGER | Primary Key (Autoincrement). |
| session_id | TEXT | Associated session ID. |
| model | TEXT | Model name used for the interaction. |
| prompt_tokens | INTEGER | Tokens in the prompt. |
| completion_tokens | INTEGER | Tokens in the response. |
| total_tokens | INTEGER | Sum of prompt and completion tokens. |
| created_at | DATETIME | Timestamp of the interaction. Default: `CURRENT_TIMESTAMP`. |

### 6. session_state
Stores the persistent self-managed state block, per session.

| Column | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| session_id | TEXT | Primary Key. Session ID. |
| state_blob | TEXT | The persistent `### STATE` block. |
| last_updated | TIMESTAMP | Timestamp of last update. Default: `CURRENT_TIMESTAMP`. |

### 7. llm_memos
Long-term knowledge persistence through tag-based memos.

| Column | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| id | INTEGER | Primary Key (Autoincrement). |
| content | TEXT | Memo text content. |
| semantic_tags | TEXT | JSON-formatted array of tags for search and retrieval. |
| created_at | DATETIME | Entry timestamp. Default: `CURRENT_TIMESTAMP`. |

## Default Tools

The following tools are registered by default during database initialization:

- `grep_tool`: Search for a pattern in the codebase using grep. Delegates to `git_grep_tool` if available in a git repository. If not in a git repository, it is highly recommended to initialize one with `git init` for better performance and feature support.
- `git_grep_tool`: Comprehensive search using `git grep`. Optimized for git repositories, honors `.gitignore`, and can search history. Supports function-level context (`-W`).
- `read_file`: Read the content of a file from the local filesystem. Returns content with line numbers. Supports optional `start_line` and `end_line` parameters for granular reading.
- `write_file`: Write content to a file in the local filesystem.
- `execute_bash`: Execute a bash command on the local system.

- `query_db`: Query the local SQLite database using SQL.
- `manage_scratchpad`: Read or update the persistent session-specific scratchpad.

## Default Skills

The following skills are registered by default:

- `planner`: Strategic Tech Lead specialized in architectural decomposition and iterative feature delivery.
- `dba`: Database Administrator specializing in SQLite schema design and data integrity.
- `c++_expert`: Enforces strict adherence to project C++17 constraints and Google style.
- `code_reviewer`: Multilingual code reviewer enforcing language-specific standards (Google C++, PEP8, etc.).

## SQL Initialization

```sql
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS messages (
    id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,
    session_id TEXT,
    role TEXT CHECK(role IN ('system', 'user', 'assistant', 'tool')),
    content TEXT,
    tool_call_id TEXT,
    status TEXT DEFAULT 'completed',
    created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    group_id TEXT,
    parsing_strategy TEXT
);

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS tools (
    name TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    description TEXT,
    json_schema TEXT,
    is_enabled INTEGER DEFAULT 1,
    call_count INTEGER DEFAULT 0
);

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS skills (
    id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,
    name TEXT UNIQUE,
    description TEXT,
    system_prompt_patch TEXT,
    activation_count INTEGER DEFAULT 0
);

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS sessions (
    id TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    context_size INTEGER DEFAULT 2,
    scratchpad TEXT,
    active_skills TEXT
);

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS usage (
    id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,
    session_id TEXT,
    model TEXT,
    prompt_tokens INTEGER,
    completion_tokens INTEGER,
    total_tokens INTEGER,
    created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS session_state (
    session_id TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    state_blob TEXT,
    last_updated TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS llm_memos (
    id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,
    content TEXT NOT NULL,
    semantic_tags TEXT NOT NULL,
    created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);
```

Commit message:

feat(core): implement ToolDispatcher for parallel tool execution
- Introduce ToolDispatcher to manage parallel execution of tool calls.
- Integrate CancellationRequest for thread-safe interruption of long-running tools.
- Optimize ToolDispatcher polling with absl::Condition for efficient synchronization.
- Update main loop to utilize parallel dispatch with ESC-key cancellation.
- Implement process group termination in ShellUtil for robust cleanup.
- Add comprehensive unit tests for ToolDispatcher and Cancellation logic.

SCHEMA.md, after:

# std::slop Database Schema

This document describes the SQLite schema used by std::slop to persist history, tools, skills, and usage statistics.

## Tables

### 1. messages
Stores user prompts, assistant responses, and tool executions.

| Column | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| id | INTEGER | Primary Key (Autoincrement). |
| session_id | TEXT | Conversation identifier. |
| role | TEXT | `system`, `user`, `assistant`, or `tool`. Has a CHECK constraint. |
| content | TEXT | Message text or tool JSON. |
| tool_call_id | TEXT | Metadata for linking responses (e.g., `id|name`). |
| status | TEXT | `completed`, `tool_call`, or `dropped`. Default: `completed`. |
| created_at | DATETIME | Entry timestamp. Default: `CURRENT_TIMESTAMP`. |
| group_id | TEXT | Turn identifier for atomic operations (Unix nanoseconds). |
| parsing_strategy | TEXT | The orchestrator strategy used to publish the message (e.g., `openai`, `gemini`). Used for filtering tool history during cross-model switches. |
| tokens | INTEGER | Number of tokens in the message content. Default: 0. |

### 2. tools
Registry of available agent tools.

| Column | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| name | TEXT | Primary Key. Unique tool name. |
| description | TEXT | Functional description. |
| json_schema | TEXT | Argument definition in JSON Schema format. |
| is_enabled | INTEGER | Status flag (1 for active, 0 for inactive). Default: 1. |
| call_count | INTEGER | Number of successful tool executions. Default: 0. |

### 3. skills
Persona patches for specialized instructions.

| Column | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| id | INTEGER | Primary Key (Autoincrement). |
| name | TEXT | Unique skill name. |
| description | TEXT | Purpose description. |
| system_prompt_patch | TEXT | Instructions to inject into the system prompt. |
| activation_count | INTEGER | Number of times this skill has been activated. Default: 0. |

### 4. sessions
Persists user settings for each conversation session.

| Column | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| id | TEXT | Primary Key. Session ID. |
| context_size | INTEGER | Size of the sequential rolling window (number of groups). Default: 2. |
| scratchpad | TEXT | A flexible workspace for the LLM to store plans and notes. |
| active_skills | TEXT | JSON array of currently active skill names for this session. |

### 5. usage
Tracks token usage for cost and performance monitoring.

| Column | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| id | INTEGER | Primary Key (Autoincrement). |
| session_id | TEXT | Associated session ID. |
| model | TEXT | Model name used for the interaction. |
| prompt_tokens | INTEGER | Tokens in the prompt. |
| completion_tokens | INTEGER | Tokens in the response. |
| total_tokens | INTEGER | Sum of prompt and completion tokens. |
| created_at | DATETIME | Timestamp of the interaction. Default: `CURRENT_TIMESTAMP`. |

### 6. session_state
Stores the persistent self-managed state block, per session.

| Column | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| session_id | TEXT | Primary Key. Session ID. |
| state_blob | TEXT | The persistent `### STATE` block. |
| last_updated | TIMESTAMP | Timestamp of last update. Default: `CURRENT_TIMESTAMP`. |

### 7. llm_memos
Long-term knowledge persistence through tag-based memos.

| Column | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| id | INTEGER | Primary Key (Autoincrement). |
| content | TEXT | Memo text content. |
| semantic_tags | TEXT | JSON-formatted array of tags for search and retrieval. |
| created_at | DATETIME | Entry timestamp. Default: `CURRENT_TIMESTAMP`. |

## Default Tools

The following tools are registered by default during database initialization:

- `grep_tool`: Search for a pattern in the codebase using grep. Delegates to `git_grep_tool` if available in a git repository. If not in a git repository, it is highly recommended to initialize one with `git init` for better performance and feature support.
- `git_grep_tool`: Comprehensive search using `git grep`. Optimized for git repositories, honors `.gitignore`, and can search history. Supports function-level context (`-W`).
- `read_file`: Read the content of a file from the local filesystem. Returns content with line numbers. Supports optional `start_line` and `end_line` parameters for granular reading.
- `write_file`: Write content to a file in the local filesystem.
- `apply_patch`: Applies partial changes to a file by matching a specific block of text and replacing it.
- `execute_bash`: Execute a bash command on the local system.
- `list_directory`: List files and directories with optional depth and git awareness.

- `query_db`: Query the local SQLite database using SQL.
- `describe_db`: Describe the database schema and tables.
- `manage_scratchpad`: Read or update the persistent session-specific scratchpad.

- `save_memo`: Save a memo with semantic tags for later retrieval.
- `retrieve_memos`: Retrieve memos based on semantic tags.
- `use_skill`: Activate or deactivate a specialized skill/persona.
- `search_code`: Search for code snippets in the codebase using grep.

## Default Skills

The following skills are registered by default:

- `planner`: Strategic Tech Lead specialized in architectural decomposition and iterative feature delivery.
- `dba`: Database Administrator specializing in SQLite schema design and data integrity.
- `c++_expert`: Enforces strict adherence to project C++17 constraints and Google style.
- `code_reviewer`: Multilingual code reviewer enforcing language-specific standards (Google C++, PEP8, etc.).

## SQL Initialization

```sql
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS messages (
    id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,
    session_id TEXT,
    role TEXT CHECK(role IN ('system', 'user', 'assistant', 'tool')),
    content TEXT,
    tool_call_id TEXT,
    status TEXT DEFAULT 'completed',
    created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    group_id TEXT,
    parsing_strategy TEXT
);

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS tools (
    name TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    description TEXT,
    json_schema TEXT,
    is_enabled INTEGER DEFAULT 1,
    call_count INTEGER DEFAULT 0
);

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS skills (
    id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,
    name TEXT UNIQUE,
    description TEXT,
    system_prompt_patch TEXT,
    activation_count INTEGER DEFAULT 0
);

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS sessions (
    id TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    context_size INTEGER DEFAULT 2,
    scratchpad TEXT,
    active_skills TEXT
);

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS usage (
    id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,
    session_id TEXT,
    model TEXT,
    prompt_tokens INTEGER,
    completion_tokens INTEGER,
    total_tokens INTEGER,
    created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS session_state (
    session_id TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    state_blob TEXT,
    last_updated TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS llm_memos (
    id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,
    content TEXT NOT NULL,
    semantic_tags TEXT NOT NULL,
    created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);
```
